README.md, before:

# Belly Button Biodiversity
This project is a part of the [Data Science Bootcamp](https://bootcamp.pe.gatech.edu/data/) at [Georgia Tech](https://bootcamp.pe.gatech.edu/).

#### -- Project Status: [Active]

## Project Intro/Objective
The purpose of this project is to provide an interactive visualization for each sample in a data collection.

### Methods Used
* Flask App
* Chart Building
* Heroku Deployment

### Technologies
* Python
* Flask
* SQLAlchemy
* Pandas, jupyter
* HTML
* JavaScript
* Plotly
* Heroku

## Project Description
The Belly Button Biodiversity provides the user with two interactive visualizations that dynamically update between each data sample selection.
![overall](Belly_Button_Diversity/Images/overall.png)
The page provides a dropdown with a list of each sample number. The page loads the sample's metadata in a table, filling it with various information about the sample. A pie chart is created with each OTU from the sample and it's percentage value. Following, a chart is populated with bubbles that represent each OTU. The greater the percentage, the larger the bubble. The larger the count of the OTU, the higher on the y-scale the bubble is. The x-scale represents the ID of each OTU.
![pieandgauge](Belly_Button_Diversity/Images/pieandgauge.png)
![bubble](Belly_Button_Diversity/Images/bubble.png)
The app was built using Flask in Python, and the data is kept in a sqlite database. The charts of the webpage are generated using Plotly in JavaScript.

## Getting Started

1. Clone this repo (for help see this [tutorial](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/)).
2. Raw Data is found in the following location: 
- https://github.com/joja92/plotly-challenge/tree/master/Belly_Button_Diversity/DataSets
3. Data processing/transformation scripts are being kept [here](https://github.com/joja92/plotly-challenge/tree/master/Belly_Button_Diversity)
4. App can be found [here](https://bbd-plotly.herokuapp.com/) - or - run locally providing Python is installed with the following libraries required to run: flask, pandas, sqlalchemy, flask_sqlalchemy


## Contributing Members

**[Joseph Ayala](https://github.com/joja92)**

## Contact 
* Feel free to contact me with any questions or if you are interested in contributing!

Commit message:

include Heroku link in readme

README.md, after:

# Belly Button Biodiversity
This project is a part of the [Data Science Bootcamp](https://bootcamp.pe.gatech.edu/data/) at [Georgia Tech](https://bootcamp.pe.gatech.edu/).

#### -- Project Status: [Active]

## Project Intro/Objective
The purpose of this project is to provide an interactive visualization for each sample in a data collection.

### Methods Used
* Flask App
* Chart Building
* Heroku Deployment

### Technologies
* Python
* Flask
* SQLAlchemy
* Pandas, jupyter
* HTML
* JavaScript
* Plotly
* Heroku

## Project Description
The Belly Button Biodiversity provides the user with two interactive visualizations that dynamically update between each data sample selection.
![overall](Belly_Button_Diversity/Images/overall.png)
The page provides a dropdown with a list of each sample number. The page loads the sample's metadata in a table, filling it with various information about the sample. A pie chart is created with each OTU from the sample and it's percentage value. Following, a chart is populated with bubbles that represent each OTU. The greater the percentage, the larger the bubble. The larger the count of the OTU, the higher on the y-scale the bubble is. The x-scale represents the ID of each OTU.
![pieandgauge](Belly_Button_Diversity/Images/pieandgauge.png)
![bubble](Belly_Button_Diversity/Images/bubble.png)
The app was built using Flask in Python, and the data is kept in a sqlite database. The charts of the webpage are generated using Plotly in JavaScript. The application is hosted on Heroku ([link](https://bbd-plotly.herokuapp.com/)).

## Getting Started

1. Clone this repo (for help see this [tutorial](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/)).
2. Raw Data is found in the following location: 
- https://github.com/joja92/plotly-challenge/tree/master/Belly_Button_Diversity/DataSets
3. Data processing/transformation scripts are being kept [here](https://github.com/joja92/plotly-challenge/tree/master/Belly_Button_Diversity)
4. App can be found [here](https://bbd-plotly.herokuapp.com/) - or - run locally providing Python is installed with the following libraries required to run: flask, pandas, sqlalchemy, flask_sqlalchemy


## Contributing Members

**[Joseph Ayala](https://github.com/joja92)**

## Contact 
* Feel free to contact me with any questions or if you are interested in contributing!
